---

title: November 16th
date: '2004-11-17T07:59:00-08:00'
tags:
- novel
- nanowrimo
engineer:
  slug: november-16th
  url: /2004/11/november-16th/

# Custom Properties
guid: http://blog.tylerbutler.com/index.php/2004/11/november-16th/

---

The scene faded out, movie like, and Joel was once again in the hospital.
His body ached, but at least the sharp pain had dulled. _It must have been a
dream_, he thought. A dream based on the memory of that tremendous night the
three of them had shared. The following day he had said goodbye to both Pang
and Sean, and had continued on his trip alone. He had taken Sean's thoughts to
heart, and had made a concerted effort throughout the rest of his trip to just
sit back and take it all in; to fully absorb the experience and make it his.
His only regret had been that Sean hadn't made the comment earlier.

But now, laying in the hospital bed, staring up at the ceiling, he wondered
if Sean had been right. He didn't feel like he had a lot of time. He had been
_shot_! He felt robbed. This was supposed to be his triumphant return. He had
learned so much, and now he was to apply it to his life, to make sense of
everything, and to make things _better_. But instead some idiot had shot him,
for no apparent reason, and he was laying in a hospital, probably barely
clinging to his life.

It seemed ludicrous. Fate had such a twisted sense of humor. He had gone so
far, learned so much, only to be idle again, his brain left to stew and figure
out ways to defeat itself.

Heather appeared in the doorway again, looking as angelic as she had before.
At least it wasn't _all_ bad around here.

“Hi again, Joel. Feeling all right?” she asked softly, sitting down in the
chair next to his bed. He looked over at her and smiled weakly.

“I'm OK.”

She smiled back. “Well, there are a couple of detectives here that would
like to talk to you if you're feeling up to it. They're trying to figure out
what happened.”

Joel nodded. “OK.”

Heather stood up and signaled to the two men waiting outside, then moved to
the back of the room as they entered.

“Good afternoon, Mr. Mendocino, I'm Detective Cobb, and this is my partner,
Detective Ames. We know you need to rest, but it would really help us out if
you could tell us what happened.”

Joel closed his eyes and thought back to the plane, to the train ride, to
the bagel, and to the altercation in the alley -- all of the events that had
happened since his return. His thoughts were muddy, everything seemed to run
together.

“I was walking to my apartment...” he began. “I had gotten off the train,
and had stopped by Dominick's to get something to eat.”

Ames interrupted, “We found you a few blocks east of your apartment? How did
you wind up there?”

Joel furrowed his brow, trying to remember exactly what had happened. “I
don't know,” he responded. “I wasn't really paying attention. I was pretty
tired and wasn't concentrating. I remember hearing a loud bang and running
towards it... there were two men there, and one of them had a gun. I pleaded
with them, but they were crazy. The guy with the gun just shot me for no
reason, then they ran off.”

“I didn't see the other guy on the ground until after I got shot. I picked
him up and tried to walk to the street, but I don't know how far I made it.
That's all I remember.” He laid back against the pillow. The pain was growing
again.

“Did you know the other man?” Cobb asked, taking notes on a small notepad.

“No. Is he OK?”

“Unfortunately, he was dead when we found you. From what the doctor tells
me, you barely made it yourself.”

Joel groaned. The pain was becoming unbearable again. “I think that's enough
for now, Detectives,” Heather spoke up as she moved towards Joel's bedside
again.

Cobb nodded. “OK, Mr. Mendocino. Thanks a lot for your help. We'll let you
know if we find anything.” The detectives turned and exited, and Joel
floundered, feeling for the plunger that would bring him relief. Heather
placed it back in his hand and he pressed it, feeling the relaxing drug flow
wonderfully through him again.

**Chapter 16: Angelo**

_Breakin' the law, breakin' the law..._

_Breakin' the law, breakin' the law..._ Mike sang along with the Judas
Priest song blaring on the radio as he hurtled down the highway at high speed,
weaving in and out of traffic, using the shoulder as his own private lane. He
felt __. In fact, he felt invincible! He was going to go to Angelo's
seedy “office,” explain the situation to him, and if he didn't understand,
then tough shit.

He was sick of taking it up the ass from everyone. Bill at work, Marie at
home, and Angelo... he was sick of it. It was going to stop today -- _now_.

He abruptly noticed his exit on the left and swung the wheel dramatically,
cutting across the four lanes of traffic that separated him and the exit, and
laughed aloud as the cars behind him slammed on their brakes and their horns.
He was in control -- everyone else still worried about their cars, their jobs,
their _lives_, but he was free. He didn't care about any of it anymore, and
_that_ made him powerful.

He careened toward the old warehouse that Angelo called his office, just
east of the highway, in a part of town that was about as far from ritzy as you
could get. Mike didn't know exactly which arm of the underworld Angelo worked
for, but he knew he wasn't all that powerful. If he had been, Mike would never
had seen him -- he would be protected behind other, more expendable characters.

Angelo was not to be underestimated, though. He had quite a temper, despite
his cold, calculating persona, and enough goons under his control that Mike
knew it would be suicidal to approach Angelo violently. That wasn't his goal,
at least at this point.

He parked the oversized SUV in the empty lot across from Angelo's abandoned
warehouse, wondering as he stepped out of the vehicle just _how_ Marie had
managed to talk him into buying something so obviously out of place in a city.
He locked the door remotely, a happy beep-beep confirming the vehicle's
supposed security as he stepped towards the warehouse entrance.

He looked at the dilapidated brick and faded signs posted on the outside of
the warehouse. Angelo really didn't keep his place in very good condition,
considering his annual income -- all tax-free, Mike noted. It really wasn't a
bad deal, if you could handle the constant worry of law enforcement and the
threat of prison. Not a bad deal at all.

Mike pounded on the door with his fist, then stepped away, anticipating the
burly guard who swung the door open and inquired in a gruff voice. “Whaddya
want?”

“I'm here to see Angelo about a payment,” Mike replied, brushing past the
guard as he spoke. The door closed behind him, and the small sliver of
sunlight disappeared. Mike stopped, waiting for his eyes to adjust to the
dimly lit interior of the warehouse.

European techno-pop blasted from a deceptively small boom box in the corner,
where a group of card players seated around a table ignored his entrance
completely, engrossed in their own game of chance.

On his left, a group of shady-looking characters stood next to a makeshift
bar constructed of stacked crates and other miscellaneous junk; they regarded
him with little interest as he walked on down towards Angelo's main place of
business in the back of the warehouse, maneuvering around crates of random
items as he went.

The guard who'd granted him passage trailed behind him, monitoring his
travel and ensuring he didn't deviate from his stated purpose of visiting
Angelo.

Upon reaching the door to what had been the warehouse's small records
office, he knocked quickly three times and twisted the doorknob, not waiting
for the invitation to enter. There Angelo sat before him on the small love
seat facing the door, three rather long lines of cocaine laid out on the low
coffee table in front of him. A thin waif sat next to him, rouge and blush
smeared clumsily on her once-attractive face.

Angelo looked up from the table, and seeing Mike, broke into a smile.
“Mike!” he stood, opening his arms in welcome. “You know, I was just thinking
about you. Here, here...” He motioned at the table in front of him. “Join me,
there's plenty for everyone.”

The girl bent down and inhaled one of the lines, whimpering softly upon its
completion, then laid back in the love seat, bringing her hand to her nose as
her pupils dilated and the stimulant began to take effect.

“No thanks, Angelo.”

“No? Well, more for me, I suppose.” He sat down and promptly inhaled both
remaining lines, one in the left nostril and the other in the right, shaking
his head hard when he was done. He looked up at Mike again, his nose bright
red and an unfocused look in his eyes.

“Well, where is it?”

“I don't have it,” Mike stated calmly.

Angelo raised his eyebrows. “You don't have it?”

Mike nodded. “I don't have it.”

Angelo stood again and approached Mike slowly. His five-foot-three frame was
dwarfed next to Mike's, but the maniacal gleam in his eyes indicated to Mike
that he meant business. Mike stood his ground.

“Mike, your debt isn't due until the end of the month, but you know the
rules.”

Mike did know the rules, but he knew that that wouldn't stop Angelo from
reminding him of them now. Angelo seemed to take special pleasure in reminding
people of the rules after they'd already been broken.

“The only reason you come to visit me unannounced is to pay off a debt.
Anything else, you call me and I _invite_ you here or we deal with it over
the phone. You know how it works.” The girl on the couch looked up at them
both and giggled, giddy with the coke and tension in the room.

“Shut up, bitch!” Angelo turned and yelled at her, causing the smile to melt
right off her face. He turned back to Mike

Mike nodded. “I know, Angelo, but I wanted to come and tell you in person
that I won't be able to pay you back... ever.”

Angelo raised his eyebrows even higher in disbelief. “Ever? Hmmm...”

He turned, clasping his hands behind him as he paced slowly in the small
room. “Well, I certainly appreciate the gesture, Mike, but as you know, I
don't run that kind of business. Around here, we have strict rules that we
adhere to, and when someone breaks them, they're punished. And whether you'll
have the money by the time it is due or not is really irrelevant to these
proceedings. You came to visit me uninvited, without payment, which is an
egregious breach of the contract you and I arranged at the time you bet on
that horse. What was it's name?” He paused, trying to remember the name, then
resumed his pacing when the name eluded him.

Mike became aware of the guard from the entranceway behind him. “Well, it
doesn't matter what it's name was now, I suppose.”

The guard reached towards Mike's arm, but Mike was prepared. He'd been
waiting for this moment. He sidestepped, grabbing the guards own wrist as he
reached for Mike's, and thrust his body against the guards, forcing him off
balance and sent him tumbling towards the cocaine powdered coffee table.

He smashed face first into it, sending shards of imitation wood throughout
the room. The girl screamed and picked her feet off the floor just in time to
avoid getting them smashed by the falling body. Angelo moved towards the
falling twosome, and Mike pushed himself off of the falling body and whirled
around 180 degrees, grasping his hands together as he spun. His two united
fists collided with Angelo's cheek as he completed his spin, sending Angelo
reeling.

Mike didn't skip a beat. He separated his hands and pounced on Angelo while
he was still off balance, pinning him against the wall and grabbing him around
the neck. He was in control, and it felt good. He searched Angelo's face for
signs of fear, but there were none.

“You motherfucker,” Angelo squeaked, pushing hard on Mike's hands with his
own, trying to release Mike's strangle hold, but it was useless.

“You don't control me, Angelo!” Mike yelled, squeezing his hands tighter
around the soft flesh of Angelo's neck. His face was turning a satisfying
color of red. “I'm going to fucking kill you, just like I killed that other
fucking prick.”

The feeling of complete supremacy that he'd had while pounding away on
Marie's lover returned. He _was_ invincible.

He felt a sharp pain on the back of his neck and felt his muscles go
suddenly limp, then another strike to the back of his skull brought complete
blackness.

Angelo pushed his motionless body off of him, inhaling deeply to regain his
composure. He leaned on Marty, who had come to his rescue from the interior of
the warehouse, catching his breath. He kicked Mike's body as hard as he could.
“Who's in control now, bitch?”

