---

title: XBox 360 R0x0rs
date: '2006-02-07T04:31:00-08:00'
slug: xbox-360-r0x0rs
engineer:
  slug: xbox-360-r0x0rs
  url: /2006/02/xbox-360-r0x0rs/

# Custom Properties
guid: http://blog.tylerbutler.com/index.php/2006/02/xbox-360-r0x0rs/

---

Yes, I have entered the ranks of the 1337 gamers. I finally gave into the urge
and paid $75 premium to get an XBox 360 off of eBay. Yeah, I could have waited
even longer, but frankly, I was sick of the constant monitoring of the
[unt1tled XBox tracker][1], the random phone calls to friends to see if they
could pick me up one in their area, etc. Anyway, the unit arrived Saturday
morning, so I immediately plugged it in and wasted an entire day playing with
it.

So what do I think of it? Well, in a word, it is **awesome**. It outputs
beautifully on my 480p HDTV (alas, I don't think my TV supports 720p -- time to
buy a 73") in glorious widescreen deliciousness, and it was brain-dead easy to
get logged on to XBox Live. Once there, I downloaded a bunch of Arcade game
demos, including the utterly fantastic [Geometry Wars][2], which I bought for
400 Microsoft Points ($5) within 20 minutes of playing. There is so much
awesomeness in this sexy little machine that it is tough to write it all down.
But there are a couple of areas that really stand out, so I thought I'd write
a little about them.


### Achievements

The concept is so simple -- set mini goals within games and award players
points when they achieve these goals. Then centralize everything on a website
so players can compare their results to all players globally, or just amongst
their friends. This is what the XBox team has done with Achievements. An
example of an achievement in Geometry Wars is the Pacifism Achievement, which
is awarded for playing the first 60 seconds of the game without shooting
(pretty tough when you first start out). Another is awarded when you earn
100,000 points, and still another when you make it all the way to 100,000
points without dying once. You get the idea. Because achievements are super-
public -- you can go [visit my profile][3] on xbox.com and see all the
achievements I've attained for a certain game -- it adds a huge competitive
edge to the games. For example, because I can compare my achievements with my
friends, I am more apt to keep playing so that I can keep my edge over other
players. It also adds extra incentive to purchase full versions of games,
since you can't earn achievements in demos.


### Demos

And speaking of demos -- the online nature of XBox Live allows publishers to
put up downloadable game demos in the XBox Live Marketplace. So if you have
the hard drive, you can download demos of games such as Condemned, Fight
Night, Full Auto, etc. before you buy them. It's great -- but unfortunately the
demos are very large (nearly 600 MB for the Condemned demo), and there is no
way to **a)** queue up multiple downloads and **b)** download in the
background. This actually really sucks -- it means that while you're
downloading a demo, or any other type of content, you can't do anything else
on your 360. The only silver lining is that downloads are resumable, so if you
get bored downloading something and want to get in another round of Geometry
Wars, you can cancel it and resume it later. You'd think with 3 cores on the
CPU, they could spawn a background thread to handle downloads in the
background, but whatever. Its still freakin' cool.


### Media Center

The original XBox had a Media Center extender that you could use with your
Media Center 2005 PC (I'm ignoring the hacks you could use to get XBMC or
Linux on there). Unfortunately, there were two core faults -- it required a
disc to be inserted into the XBox, and it was pretty low quality because all
the graphic processing had to be done on the Media Center PC and then
transmitted through the network. Plus the XBox couldn't be turned on and of
remotely (the 360 does this **beautifully**). In short, I bought it and did
not like it **at all**. The 360 changes that. It runs the media center app
natively, and connects up to your Media Center just to start streaming the
video/music/pictures. I think all the graphics processing is done on the 360
itself, so it just looks better and is more responsive. Plus, it uses the same
remote as a typical media center remote, so you can move your large, loud
Media Center PC (which is what you wind up with when you build your own on a
budget as I did) into some dark corner of your apartment and use the 360 as
your sole media center. **Trust me -- words cannot describe how freakin'
awesome this is.**

Well, there's a ton more to say about this stunning piece of hardware/software
engineering, but I am already suffering Geometry Wars withdrawal, so I'd
better get back to it. I have achievements to earn, after all. Look me up
if you're on XBox Live -- my Gamertag is [Diametrix][4].

   [1]: http://untitlednet.com/
   [2]: http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/g/geometrywarsevolvedlivearcadexbox360/default.htm
   [3]: http://live.xbox.com/en-US/profile/profile.aspx
   [4]: http://live.xbox.com/en-US/profile/profile.aspx?pp=0&GamerTag=Diametrix

